### THIS IS DEMO

## The Maven build lifecycle is a structured, sequential process for building and managing projects. It consists of three built-in lifecycles: default (for project deployment), clean (for project cleaning), and site (for project documentation). 

Each lifecycle is made up of a sequence of phases, and each phase in turn executes one or more goals (specific tasks provided by plugins). When you run a command for a specific phase (e.g., mvn package), Maven executes every phase in the sequence, up to and including the specified one. 

## The Three Build Lifecycles :
default: The main lifecycle that handles project compilation, testing, packaging, and deployment.
clean: Manages the removal of files generated by the previous build.
site: Generates the project's documentation and site files. 

## Key Phases of the Default Lifecycle
The most commonly used phases of the default lifecycle are executed sequentially: 
validate: Confirms project correctness and necessary information.
compile: Compiles source code.
test: Runs unit tests.
package: Packages compiled code into a distributable format.
verify: Runs checks on integration test results.
install: Installs the package into the local repository.
deploy: Copies the package to a remote repository. 

## Common Commands
Interactions with the lifecycle typically use phase names from the command line: 
mvn compile: Runs phases up to and including compile.
mvn test: Executes validate, compile, and test.
mvn package: Runs phases up to and including package.
mvn install: Executes the full build and places the artifact in the local repository.
mvn clean install: First removes old build files using the clean lifecycle, then runs the install phase for a fresh build. 

## Maven Installation 
```bash
wget https://dlcdn.apache.org/maven/maven-3/3.9.12/binaries/apache-maven-3.9.12-bin.tar.gz
tar -xvf apache-maven-3.9.12-bin.tar.gz
root@ubuntu:~# mv apache-maven-3.9.12 /opt/
root@ubuntu:~#cd /opt/apache-maven-3.9.12/bin
vim /etc/profile # add end of the file ----->export PATH=$PATH:'/opt/apache-maven-3.9.12/bin'
source /etc/profile
mvn --version
```
## create project 
```bash
mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=com.cbz.app -DartifactId=cbz-app -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DarchetypeVersion=1.5 -DinteractiveMode=false
tree cbz-app/
git clone https://github.com/Bhushan-88/studentapp-ui.git
mvn clean package
```

